Slide 1
For our final project we are going to look at data for terror attacks across Europe.
More specifically we are going to focus on and visualise any trends in
the data. We believe it is interesting to investigate how terrorism is performed
between the different groups in different parts of Europe and how it has evolved
through time.

Slide 2
The dataset we are going to consider tracks terror attacks across the globe. It
originally contains more 100 variables for each of the 170.000 observations.

Slide 3
We have a chosen a subset of the data for our exploratory analysis and are only
going to consider the continent of Europe. This reduces the observations to
around 22000, furthermore we have decided to explore 15 variables, some of which
is the location, attack type and number of victims.

Slide 4 (Activity over the years)
Looking at the number of attacks for each year, we see that there are a few
spikes. It could be interesting to dive deeper into these, to see if there was
a spike a group performing the attacks or the method used for the attacks as well.

Slide 5 (Deadliest organizations)
We have looked at how active the different known organizations have been in
Europe, and it shows that IRA and ETA accounts for a big portion of the attacks.

Slide 6 (Most affected countries)
Knowing that IRA and ETA are the most active groups, it is no big surprise that
the UK and Spain are the most affected countries.

Slide 7 (Most popular attack types)
Looking at the method for the attacks, it is clear to see that four types are
the favoured.

Slide 8 (Attacks vs killed)
If you compare the number of attacks with the number of casualties, it shows
that there is a general trend of a attacks to killed ratio less than 1 for all
countries, except for Russia and Ukraine.

Slide 9 (Attack type breakdown)
If we break down the attack types for each country, we can see that Russia and
Ukraine have a larger portion of attacks done by armed assault, relative to the
remaining countries. This could indicate that this type of attack is more
effective than the others.

Slide 10 (A plot of location)
We wish to create a few different visualisations for this project. The first is
a slide show, where each slide in an annotated chart in the form a geographical
map, that plots organizations, attack type, casualties and so on. This gives a
drill-down story, that allows the user to get an overview before exploring
particular details and attacks.

Slide 11 (An explanation of chosen method)
The second plot is a stacked area chart of the type of attack and the number of
casualties. Through the use of a Martini Glass Structure combined with a drill
down story one can dissect the different attack methods to see when they are
used and how much of the total attacks they account for.

Slide 12 (A plot of the attack types evolving)
Lastly we will make an annotated alluvial diagram, that shows how
groups' attack type evolves throughout the years.
\footnote{https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/interactive/2012/10/15/us/politics/swing-history.html}

Slide 13 (implementation plan)
Our implementation plan is as follows. First we are going to get the basic
functionality in all plots up and running. Then we will build a website with a
good synergy for the plots. This is followed by some styling of the website and
the plots to give them a uniform experience. Then we'll focus on improving the
user experience by making short paragraphs and tacit tutorials. The final part
will be to tweak the plots to make the user experience even nicer.
